[Music]
on the moon
iron is preserved in pristine condition
because there's no oxygen
it simply can't rust there but just a
couple of weeks ago
scientists made an unexpected discovery
in the higher regions of our satellite
iron is oxidized and actually rusting
at first this finding perplexed
astronomers to no end
the presence of rust might mean people
can breathe
at least in certain areas of the moon
but then
the explanation surfaced oxygen might
have got to the lifeless rock
from our own planet in the absence of
atmosphere
solar winds beat the moon relentlessly
and nothing can stop them
these flares could swoop some oxygen
from the upper layers of the earth's
atmosphere
and carry it all the way to the moon the
molecules then come to rest at the
highest points of the moon's surface
that would explain why metals don't get
oxidized in the ravines
and especially under the surface of the
satellite
while we're on this topic the moon has
long been believed to have formed as a
result of a humongous
impact with the earth a mars-sized
celestial body
could have driven itself into our planet
and made part of its crust
shatter the resulting debris then packed
together in a tight ball
which later became our moon but there's
one question that's been bugging
scientists
the earth's crust is poor in metals so
how come the moon has so much metal
within it
the latest research basically throws the
main theory
out the window so in 2020 we again
know nothing about our closest neighbors
coming to existence
there's news from the further reaches of
outer space however
astronomers from mit registered a
repeating
signal from 500 million light years away
such signals are called fast radio
bursts
or frbs and they're usually singular
events
no one knows what their sources are but
they could be
supernovae or bursts of energy from
quasars
this repeating one though is pretty
creepy
because it's regular for four days
radio equipment captures signals all the
time
and then they abruptly stop but after 12
days
the same pattern begins four days of
constant radio bursts
and 12 more days of silence astronomers
managed to locate the signal
as coming from a galaxy half a billion
light years away from us
but what causes it is still unknown it
may be a spinning quasar
or a supermassive black hole but an
alien technology
is not excluded either speaking of which
there just might be about 6 billion
earth-like planets in the milky way
galaxy alone
the latest data has shown that every
fifth sun-like star
can have at least one planet in its
habitable zone
and not just any planet mind you it has
a rocky core
and surface and it's of a comparable
size to the earth
being inside the habitable zone of its
star
such a planet would have high chances of
becoming home to living creatures
microbes at least and if there are
billions of these planets in our galaxy
you could safely say that at least one
of them is not only inhabitable
but inhabited already and now
multiply this by the number of galaxies
in the universe
also considering that many of them are
much bigger than the milky way
this gives us billions upon billions of
sun-like stars
and earth-like planets and some of them
are surely more like ours
than others one such planet can be
closer than you think
venus the earth's evil sister might be
home to microscopic life
even though its surface is as hot as a
furnace and showered by acid rains from
carbon dioxide clouds
there might be something alive in its
atmosphere
scientists have recently picked up
traces of a gas
called phosphine that can be produced by
microorganisms
in very small amounts it could appear by
non-organic means
but telescopes have found much more of
this gas
this discovery came as a huge surprise
because venus
was believed to be too hostile for any
forms of life
now though it might become the first
ever planet
apart from earth to be home to living
creatures
the microbes that produce phosphate
probably live in the acidic clouds
and they don't need oxygen to survive
another promising world has been
suddenly found while rummaging through
old space telescope data
in 2018 astronomers analyzed information
received from the kepler telescope and
as usual
disregarded pieces they didn't think
were relevant
but two years later while going through
this old data
scientists noticed that one object was
misidentified
it turned out to be an exoplanet 300
light years away from earth
and so much similar to it that it was
almost a doppelganger to our home
kepler-1649c is only six percent
larger than earth and probably consists
of the same minerals
it also receives about as much light and
energy from
its star as we receive from the sun the
only problem for now
is that the star could flare up too
often
making the surface of the planet too hot
and scorching its atmosphere
still there's no proof of it yet and we
could have a potentially
habitable planet pretty close to home
au microscopii or au mic for short
is basically a cradle of a new star
system that can be observed directly
it's really close only 32 light years
away
and the star is very young around 150
times younger than our sun
on a cosmic scale it's like a newborn
baby
and you can still see a cloud of debris
swirling around it from the time it was
born
but the curiosities don't stop there
nasa
added a poster featuring au mike to its
galaxy of horrors series
because of the planet that orbits the
star au
mike b is so close to its sun that it
makes a full
circle around it in just 8.5 days
being so young the star frequently
throws tantrums
resulting in horrible doses of solar
radiation storming the poor
planet as you may guess no life is
possible in such conditions
still the scientists are happy to have
found this system
because it sheds light on how stars and
stellar systems are formed
back to earth now the climate changes
we're witnessing
are most probably part of a natural
cycle
researchers from the university of
california santa cruz
have devised a pattern in our planet's
climate variations
and they look like extremely long
seasons sometimes
these states could last for millions of
years and they're all related to how the
earth is positioned
relative to the sun the seasons
were dubbed ice house pool house warm
house
and hot house according to the prevalent
temperatures
for the past 3 million years for example
our planet
has been in the state of ice house since
the last ice age was not so long ago
but humanity's actions adding to the
greenhouse effect
have pushed the climate state to warm
house much faster than it would have
come without us
when it finally comes the overall
temperature on earth
will rise to tropical values something
that the planet hasn't seen
in over 50 million years what a time to
be alive
water on earth is actually a puzzle
shrouded in mystery
and covered with riddles the most
popular theory
is that it was brought to our planet by
icy comets and asteroids
that left behind not only mighty craters
but the liquid substance
thanks to which we can now thrive but
there's now
a new advance which suggests another
scenario
in space there's a whole lot of organic
matter
and under specific conditions it could
yield so much water
it would be enough to fill our oceans a
thousand times over
researchers conducted an experiment in
which they heated this organic matter
and obtained clear water and oil
if this is confirmed in future studies
it could mean
that even oil appeared on earth not only
thanks to fossilized
remains of living beings but from outer
space as well
remember the huge asteroid that led to
the extinction of the dinosaurs
well i wasn't around then but scientists
say it could be caused
by something entirely different at least
one mass extinction
was probably a result of a supernova
explosion
far far away from our planet a starburst
as powerful as you can imagine
lit the earth brighter than the sun one
day and soon
its uv and cosmic rays reach the ozone
layer of our planet
as they did the planet's protective
cover was
burnt away and everything that was below
suffered the consequences
it took the earth hundreds of thousands
of years to recover from that onslaught
and if it happens again which it might
we won't be able to survive luckily the
closest event like this is the explosion
of beetlejuice
and that star is way too far from us to
do any serious harm